# 238. Product of Array Except Self

## Problem

https://leetcode.com/problems/product-of-array-except-self/

## Description

Given an array nums of n integers where n > 1,  return an array output such that output[i] is equal to the product of all the elements of nums except nums[i].

Example:

```
Input:  [1,2,3,4]
Output: [24,12,8,6]
```

Constraint: It's guaranteed that the product of the elements of any prefix or suffix of the array (including the whole array) fits in a 32 bit integer.

Note: Please solve it without **division** and in O(n).

Follow up:
Could you solve it with constant space complexity? (The output array does not count as extra space for the purpose of space complexity analysis.)

## Solution - description

A brute force approach is to compute all product results separately, which heavily repeats many overlapping calculations. To reduce time complexity, we could traverse the array and record the accumulated product along both directions. After recording both directions, the answer could be easily derived by multiplying the accumulated product, as the following example shows.

```
Input:      [  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6]
From_left:  [  1,  2,  6,    ...    ]
From_right: [      ...        30,  6]
                       \      /
Answer:     [     ...    180,  ...  ]
```
It is possible to further reduce space complexity by using the output array to hold the accumulated product of one direction, and keeping another variable to represent accumulated product on the other direction. Doing so reduce the space complexity to O(1) (ignoring the output array because it is bound to be O(n) by problem definition).


## Solution - code

Language: Python3

```
class Solution:
    def productExceptSelf(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        sol = [1] + [0] * len(nums) + [1]
        hold = 1
        
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            sol[i+1] = sol[i] * nums[i]
        
        for i in range(len(nums), 0, -1):
            sol[i] = sol[i-1] * hold
            hold = hold * nums[i-1]
        
        return sol[1:-1]
```

## Complexity

* Time complexity:  O(n)
* Space complexity: O(1)
