# 53. Maximum Subarray

## Problem

https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/

## Description

Given an integer array nums, find the contiguous subarray (containing at least one number) which has the largest sum and return its sum.

Example:

```
Input: [-2,1,-3,4,-1,2,1,-5,4],
Output: 6
Explanation: [4,-1,2,1] has the largest sum = 6.
```

Follow up:
If you have figured out the O(n) solution, try coding another solution using the divide and conquer approach, which is more subtle.

## Solution - description

This problem essentially tries to find out, at each element along the array, whether the subarray we hold so far contribute to make a larger sum. At each element, we compare the sum of this element and the subarray with the element itself. If the sum is larger than the element, i.e. the subarray has a positive contribution, we append the subarray; else, we start a new subarray from the current element. We always have to traverse the entire array to find the maximum subarray, so the time complexity is O(n).

It is possible to use divide and conquer by breaking the array into two pieces, and solving 1) subarray entirely in the left/right piece, 2) subarray stretch across left and right piece. However, this does not seem to yield better performance since we still have to go through the entire array, so the solution is not included below.

## Solution - code

Language: Python3

```
class Solution:
    def maxSubArray(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        current_sum = nums[0]
        max_sum = nums[0]
        
        for i in range(1, len(nums)):
            # Decide whether to include previous subarray or start a new one
            current_sum = max(current_sum + nums[i], nums[i])
            if current_sum > max_sum:
                max_sum = current_sum
        
        return max_sum
```

## Complexity

* Time complexity:  O(n)
* Space complexity: O(1)
